---
title: I Believe in Gittip
dateline: July 12, 2012, 4:49 pm
layout: page
---

<p>I&#8217;m leaving my job, to find a living <a
href="https://www.gittip.com/whit537/">on Gittip</a>.</p>

<p>For the past two years I&#8217;ve been a software developer at <a
href="http://www.yougov.com/">YouGov</a>, an international company that runs
high-end internet surveys. They do statistically rigorous market research for
big brands and opinion polling for political scientists. To anyone looking to
work remotely writing Python, I absolutely recommend them. It&#8217;s been a
great gig. <a href="mailto:chad@zetaweb.com">Email me your resume</a> and
I&#8217;ll pass it along.</p>

<p>In some ways, the fact that life was so good at YouGov has made it all the
more clear that I need to leave. I couldn&#8217;t imagine simply getting a
different job, because YouGov has been a fantastic job. The nagging frustration
I&#8217;ve felt is with &#8220;job&#8221; itself as a form of work. I
don&#8217;t want to not work. I&#8217;m not lazy. And I refuse to accept that I
have to hit a capitalist home run before I can &#8220;do what I <em>really</em>
want.&#8221; I want <em>everyone</em> to be free to do what they really want,
right now, because I believe that what everyone really wants is to make the
world better. Can we unlock the passion? Can we have the stability of corporate
jobs, <em>and</em> the freedom of self-direction? That&#8217;s what Gittip is
about for me.</p>

<p>Today I released a <a href="http://blog.gittip.com/post/27068825269
/introducing-personal-funding-goals">feature</a> where Gittip users can specify
a personal funding goal. Mine is $2,000.00 per week, and I hope to reach it by
this time next year.</p>

<p><a href="https://www.gittip.com/whit537/">Click here</a> if you&#8217;d like
to be part of my story.</p>

<p>In the mean time, I will be looking for about 50 hours a month of contract
work to stay afloat, available starting August 15. Please <a
href="mailto:chad@zetaweb.com">get in touch</a> if you know of any
opportunities.</p>
