---
title: The Plan
dateline: July 5, 2012, 2:02 pm
layout: page
---

<p>Yesterday, Alex Gaynor explained why he <a
href="http://alexgaynor.net/2012/jul/04/why-personal-funding/">supports personal
funding</a> for open source developers, namely that &#8220;open source is an
obscenely efficient way to develop software.&#8221; Russell Keith-Magee agreed
(as do I), and then hit the nail on the head when he added that, for personal
funding to work in open source, what&#8217;s really needed is <a
href="http://cecinestpasun.com/entries/personal-funding-and-culture-open-
source/">a cultural change</a>:</p>

<blockquote>

<p>But the whole personal funding approach won&#8217;t work unless you can get a
non-trivial proportion of those 1.7 million Github users to contribute
financially. So for me, the real question is how to affect the social change
that makes donation like this the rule, not the exception. <strong>Unless
there&#8217;s a plan</strong> for how to get to there from here, my concern is
that Gittip won&#8217;t move beyond a well-intentioned, but small-scale
experiment. [emphasis added]</p></blockquote>

<p>I&#8217;d like to offer a few thoughts on what I see as &#8220;the
plan.&#8221;</p><h4>The Vision and the Next Step</h4>

<p>A few years ago I worked for a non-profit that was trying to effect social
change, and basically succeeded. The model that we followed was called
&#8220;transformational change&#8221; by our organization&#8217;s leadership and
the consultants they were listening to. The core idea is this: <em>All you can
count on is the vision and the next step.</em> Here&#8217;s an image I put
together at the time to capture my understanding of transformational change:</p>

<p><img src="http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_m6p5v8XlYD1rn81gb.jpg"/></p>

<p>From where you stand now (A), you see the mountaintop you&#8217;re trying to
reach in the distance (Z), and you have a general idea of what lies between, but
the only step you&#8217;re really clear on is the next one (B). So <strong>take
the next step!</strong> Don&#8217;t get distracted speculating about the ground
between (B) and (Z), because it&#8217;s too uncertain, full of unknown obstacles
and opportunities. Bringing about transformational change means reacting to
many, many realities that are out of your control and off your radar, given
where you stand right now.</p>

<p>We&#8217;ve already seen this illustrated in Gittip&#8217;s short life. Who
knew that in week two <a href="http://blog.gittip.com/post/25565694263/how-not-
to-get-acquired">our credit card processor would fail</a>, and we&#8217;d have
to rebuild from scratch? We had to react to that when it became step (B), the
next step. If we had spent time protecting against that risk earlier, week one
never would have happened. The good news is that we bounced back, and here in
week five we have 64 credit cards on file, more than double the 26 we had before
starting over.</p>

<p>My vision for Gittip is a culture of giving, where we as a community enable
each other to freely pursue our vision of how to make the world better. I love
this quote from Jessica Jackley, co-founder of Kiva, on the <a
href="http://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2012/07/the-power-and-the-
peril-of-our-crowdfunded-future/259304/">cultural shift that Kiva has
witnessed</a> and been a part of: &#8220;hundreds of thousands of people have
given up financial return [&#8230;] in exchange for the feeling of participation
in someone else&#8217;s story.&#8221; Yes!</p>

<p>What&#8217;s the next step? To run Gittip #5 tomorrow. It looks like
we&#8217;ll have 1.5x givers and 2.5x volume over last week. That&#8217;s not
nothing.</p><h4>A Swarm of Bees</h4>

<p>I also take inspiration from the following passage from Leo Tolstoy&#8217;s
book, <em><a href="http://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/4602/pg4602.txt">The
Kingdom of God is Within You</a></em>, where he eloquently describes the
interplay of group and individual required for social change to occur. The book,
published in 1894,  presciently describes what we would now call the <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diffusion_of_innovations">diffusion of
innovations</a>.</p>

<blockquote>

<p>Men [sic] in their present condition are like a swarm of bees hanging in a
cluster to a branch. The position of the bees on the branch is temporary, and
must inevitably be changed. They must start off and find themselves a
habitation. Each of the bees knows this, and desires to change her own and the
others&#8217; position, but no one of them can do it till the rest of them do
it. They cannot all start off at once, because one hangs on to another and
hinders her from separating from the swarm, and therefore they all continue to
hang there. It would seem that the bees could never escape from their
position[&#8230;.] And there would be no escape for the bees, if each of them
were not a living, separate creature, endowed with wings of its own. Similarly
there would be no escape for men, if each were not a living being[.]</p>

<p>If every bee who could fly, did not try to fly, the others, too, would never
be stirred, and the swarm would never change its position. [&#8230;] But only
let one bee spread her wings, start off, and fly away, and after her another,
and another, and the clinging, inert cluster would become a freely flying swarm
of bees. </p></blockquote>

<p>Which is to say that &#8220;the plan&#8221; to effect the cultural change
that Gittip needs to succeed is the same as that for any other cultural change.
The plan is for millions of people to each individually adopt a new outlook. As
Tolstoy goes on to say: </p>

<blockquote>

<p>But men think that to set all men free by this means is too slow a process,
that they must find some other means by which they could set all men free at
once. It is just as though the bees who want to start and fly away should
consider it too long a process to wait for all the swarm to start one by one;
and should think they ought to find some means by which it would not be
necessary for every separate bee to spread her wings and fly off, but by which
the whole swarm could fly at once where it wanted to. But that is not possible;
till a first, a second, a third, a hundredth bee spreads her wings and flies off
of her own accord, the swarm will not fly off and will not begin its new
life.</p></blockquote>

<p>My plan is to take the next step in front of me, to start hovering away from
the swarm a little bit, and encourage others to do the same.</p><h4>Plenty to Do</h4>

<p>Now, of course that doesn&#8217;t mean that there&#8217;s not plenty to do,
nor that discussing possible ways to reach out to the open source community and
evangelize the idea of personal funding is time wasted. What I want to establish
is that I have no big Master Plan, and that that&#8217;s a good thing.
Let&#8217;s be clear on that, and then by all means <a
href="https://github.com/whit537/www.gittip.com/issues/109">let&#8217;s figure
out how to get this swarm moving</a>!</p>
