---
title: Open Partnerships
dateline: July 30, 2012, 3:17 pm
layout: page
---

<p><a href="https://www.gittip.com/">Gittip</a> is a personal funding platform,
a way to support people who make the world better by building free culture for
the rest of us. We launched eight weeks ago and currently move $950 per week in
small, recurring, anonymous gifts. If that sounds interesting you should <a
href="https://www.gittip.com/">join the site</a> and support your favorite
programmer.</p>

<p>Now something serendipitous is happening with Gittip: we are forming
partnerships with third-party vendors in a really unusual way. I&#8217;m calling
these &#8220;open partnerships&#8221; because Gittip is an <a
href="http://blog.gittip.com/post/26350459746/the-first-open-company">open
company</a>. Here are the features of Gittip&#8217;s open partnerships:</p>

<ul>

<li>The need or desire for a third-party vendor to solve a particular
problem is raised within the Gittip community, manifesting as a ticket <a
href="http://github.com/gittip/www.gittip.com/issues">on GitHub</a>.</li>

<li>Vendors who want Gittip&#8217;s business are invited to make their case as
equal participants in discussions that are open to the entire community.</li>

<li>Decisions about vendors are made in the same open way as any other
decision.</li>

<li>Vendors are responsible to contribute code to Gittip to integrate with their
service. </li>

<li>Vendors charge full price for their service. Gittip doesn&#8217;t get some
sort of non-profit or open-source discount, because Gittip is not a non-profit
nor an open-source project.</li></ul>

<p>Gittip&#8217;s first open partnership is with <a
href="http://www.balancedpayments.com/">Balanced Payments</a>, a payment
processor for marketplaces. After FeeFighters <a
href="http://blog.gittip.com/post/25565694263/how-not-to-get-acquired">stranded
us</a>, and Stripe reluctantly asked us <a
href="https://github.com/gittip/www.gittip.com/issues/67">to leave</a>, we were
casting about for Plan C when Balanced showed up on GitHub and in IRC and
volunteered to contribute the <a
href="https://github.com/gittip/www.gittip.com/pull/137">code to integrate</a>
with their service for charging credit cards. That code went live last week.
They&#8217;re currently working on a branch for ACH <a
href="https://github.com/mjallday/www.gittip.com/tree/payouts">withdrawals</a>,
and have also started contributing <a href="https://github.com/gittip/www.gittip
.com/issues/66#issuecomment-7267192">visual design</a>. The co-founders of the
company are YC alumni, so they bring a lot to the table in terms of advice and
networking as well. In my view they&#8217;re doing a fantastic job of respecting
Gittip as an open community, while making a smart move to acquire what
essentially amounts to free business. I keep trying to sniff out whether this
relationship is a bad idea, but so far I think it&#8217;s just the good kind of
weird.</p>

<p>It appears that things are going to get even <a
href="https://twitter.com/balancedpayment/status/230007562752364544">good</a>-<a
href="https://twitter.com/dwolla/status/230008364531347456">weirder</a>,
because Dwolla now seems interested in <a
href="https://github.com/gratipay/gratipay.com/issues/65#issuecomment-7372389">pursuing</a>
a similar relationship. <a href="https://www.dwolla.com/">Dwolla</a> intends to
displace Visa by moving money for $0.25 per transaction instead of 2.9% +
$0.30.</p>

<p>I believe having Dwolla at the table is in the best interest of the Gittip
community, and I&#8217;d like to welcome them. :-)</p>

<p>I look forward to deepening our relationship with Balanced. They are the true
innovators of open partnerships, having seen the potential and reached out to
initiate our relationship.</p>

<p>A third vendor that I would like to invite to the table is <a href="https
://bit-pay.com/">bitpay</a>. While controversial, Gittip is getting steady
pressure from users to <a
href="https://github.com/gittip/www.gittip.com/issues/14">support bitcoin</a>,
and bitpay seems to be the processor of choice.</p>

<p>I would also welcome an overture from <a
href="https://spreedlycore.com/">SpreedlyCore</a>, to possibly <a
href="https://github.com/gittip/www.gittip.com/issues/210">vault
cards</a> redundantly.</p>

<p>On a related note, I&#8217;d like to thank <a
href="http://workforpie.com/">Work For Pie</a>, an alternative to resumes and
current job boards, for integrating Gittip buttons with their user profiles.
They are even offering to <a href="http://workforpie.posterous.com/why-were-
supporting-gittip-12292">match gifts</a> to users that are on both sites:</p>

<blockquote>

<div>

<p>We’re putting our money where our mouth is. Starting now, <a
href="http://workforpie.com/" title="Work for Pie" target="_blank">Work for
Pie</a> will contribute its own money to Gittip.  We&#8217;re working with the
Gittip team to figure out how we can match tips made by others, and once
that&#8217;s ready we&#8217;ll be doing so. It’s not much, but it’s our way
of saying thank you to all the amazing open source developers out there.</p></div></blockquote>

<p>These are all exciting partnerships! I never imagined two months ago that
these sorts of open partnerships would develop. This kind of serendipity tells
me that we might be on to something with <a
href="https://www.gittip.com/">Gittip</a> and with <a
href="http://blog.gittip.com/post/26350459746/the-first-open-company">open
companies</a>.</p>

<p>Do you have an idea for how your company can add value to the Gittip
community? Start a conversation with me, <a
href="https://www.gittip.com/whit537/">Chad Whitacre</a>, on <a
href="https://twitter.com/whit537">Twitter</a>, or participate in a conversation
<a href="https://github.com/gittip/www.gittip.com/issues">on GitHub</a>, or join
the #gittip channel on freenode.</p>
