---
title: Call with David Heinemeier Hansson
dateline: December 3, 2013, 4:34 pm
layout: page
---

<p>Gittip founder Chad Whitacre participated in an open call with 37signals
partner and Ruby on Rails founder David Heinemeier Hansson today. The call came
about after David wrote a blog post three weeks ago, &#8220;<a
href="http://david.heinemeierhansson.com/2013/the-perils-of-mixing-open-source-
and-money.html">The perils of mixing open source and money</a>.&#8221; When he
was subsequently <a
href="https://twitter.com/Bruce_Adams/status/400381703648473088">introduced</a>
to Gittip, it kicked off a lengthy Twitter conversation that resulted in a <a
href="https://medium.com/building-gittip/2c621dbd7541">response</a> from Chad,
followed by an <a
href="https://twitter.com/dhh/status/400760704803672064">invitation</a> from
David &#8220;to have a longer discussion about this in person at some
point.&#8221; Thomas Fuchs <a
href="https://twitter.com/thomasfuchs/status/403880839995740161">kicked off</a>
another round of conversation 10 days ago, followed by a <a
href="https://twitter.com/whit537/status/407627022685319168">third round</a>
yesterday.</p>

<p>The basic topic of the conversation is how crowdfunding affects open-source.
Open-source (like <a href="https://medium.com/building-
gittip/7c266abbe54">journalism</a>)Â has achieved a delicate balance, where the
parties involved know what the rules are, where the money stops and the open-
source love (or the journalistic integrity) begins. This boundary is messy at
times, but it&#8217;s been more or less thoroughly explored and is well-
understood by those involved. Crowdfunding upsets this stasis. Does crowdfunding
corrupt open-source by introducing extrinsic motivation? Does it crowd out the
intrinsic motivation that lies at the heart of open-source?</p>

<p>Here is the video of the call:</p>

<p><iframe frameborder="0" height="315" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/p1E-
svVd9Xc" width="560"></iframe></p>
