---
title: New Design, New Team
dateline: February 11, 2013, 12:08 pm
layout: page
---

<p><a href="https://www.gittip.com/">Gittip</a> has a new look, thanks to a
collaboration between <a
href="https://www.gittip.com/on/twitter/damon_sf/">Damon Chin</a>, <a
href="https://www.gittip.com/nicksergeant/">Nick Sergeant</a>, and myself (Chad
Whitacre). The site launched seven months ago with a spartan user experience,
and early on we <a
href="https://github.com/gittip/www.gittip.com/issues/66">recognized</a> the
need to do better. Within a month, Damon had contributed design files for a new
visual design for the site. Damon is an employee of Gittip’s close partner, <a
href="https://www.balancedpayments.com/">Balanced Payments</a>, and I’m
grateful to both for the contribution. The design languished, however, for lack
of someone to implement it in markup and integrate it with our web
framework.</p>

<p>Fast forward to 2013, and we’re starting to build the Gittip team in
earnest. I announced a month ago that Gittip is hiring, and since then we’ve
added over a dozen active contributors working on many different parts of
Gittip. We’ve deployed important work from <a
href="https://www.gittip.com/joonas/">Joonas Bergius</a> in refactoring the
codebase under the hood, as well as smaller contributions from others, but we
haven’t had a major user-facing contribution until now<span>.
</span><span>I’m grateful to </span><a
href="https://www.gittip.com/nicksergeant/">Nick Sergeant</a><span> for stepping
forward to convert Damon’s design into markup. I picked it up from there to
integrate the markup with the site itself.</span></p>

<p>Refreshing the visual design of Gittip and recruiting contributors were two
of five priorities I <a href="http://blog.gittip.com/post/33391001893/status-
report-and-priorities-for-fall-2012">identified</a> in October. Therefore, with
this update, I’m satisfied that we’ve met those two goals. A third, Twitter
integration, was finished in November. The two remaining goals from those five
are non-U.S. payouts, and integrating with RubyGems.org. I look forward to
announcements on those in the near future.</p><hr>

<p><em><a href="https://www.gittip.com/whit537/">Chad Whitacre</a> is the
founder of Gittip, a platform for inspiring generosity through weekly cash
gifts.</em></p>
