---
title: Why Were You Charged $10?
dateline: July 27, 2012, 7:39 pm
layout: page
---

<p>A number of Gittip funders were charged $10 this week, even though they are
only tipping a few dollars or even a few cents (for people who set up tips
before <a href="http://blog.gittip.com/post/26505682007/is-personal-funding-
viable">the tip structure changed</a>). I should have done better to announce
the reason for this ahead of time. Sorry about that.</p>

<p>The reason you were charged $10 is to minimize processing fees. You are
paying a 3.9% + $0.30 fee each time we pull in money from your credit card,
nearly all of which goes to our payment processor. If you&#8217;re only tipping
$1.00 then you were being charged $1.36&#8212;a 36% fee. By pulling in $10 at
once we only have to charge you a $0.68 fee, which turns out to be 7% of the
$9.32 that is actually credited to your Gittip account.</p>

<p>We hope to <a
href="https://github.com/whit537/www.gittip.com/issues/65">implement Dwolla</a>
to reduce these fees even further, but while getting started we thought it best
to implement credit cards first since they&#8217;re much more widely
adopted.</p>

<p>The extra money we pulled in this week will be used to fund future gifts. You
can see a detailed record of your credit card charges and gifts on the History
page linked towards the bottom of <a
href="https://www.gittip.com/about/me.html">your profile</a>.</p>

<p>If you have any questions or concerns please get in touch with me, Chad
Whitacre, via <a href="https://twitter.com/whit537">Twitter</a> or <a
href="mailto:chad@zetaweb.com">email</a>, or by phone at +1-412-925-4220.
Thanks.</p>
