---
title: The First Open Company
dateline: July 2, 2012, 11:58 am
layout: page
---

<p><a href="https://www.gittip.com/">Gittip</a> is not just another web app or
start-up, it&#8217;s a new <em>kind</em> of company. I&#8217;m calling it an
&#8220;open company,&#8221; and here are its three defining principles:</p>

<ol>

<li><strong>Share as much as possible.</strong> An open company develops
all of its products publicly, and freely shares all of its intellectual
property. Any software it writes is open source. It publishes as much financial
and other data as it can without compromising customer privacy. All employees of
the company are publicly listed along with their level of access to private
company information and private customer data.</li>

<li><strong>Charge as little as possible.</strong> An open company tries to
charge as little for its products and services as possible. Price to cost, that
is, instead of to value.</li>

<li><strong>Don&#8217;t compensate employees.</strong> Employees of an open
company don&#8217;t earn a wage or salary or receive benefits from the company.
Their only distinction from non-employees is their access to sensitive data,
such as private customer data, passwords, and detailed financial
information.</li></ol>

<p>Open companies are situated within the wider movement of free and open
culture. <a href="https://www.gittip.com/">Gittip</a> itself provides a way for
anyone building free culture, including employees and participants in an open
company, to be reciprocally gifted by a community of like-minded individuals.
The idea is that employees of an open company, along with all those who share in
the wider task of building whatever it is the company &#8220;owns&#8221; (really
it&#8217;s a commons) would receive the money they still need to pay their bills
via <a href="https://www.gittip.com/">Gittip</a> or similar means.</p><h4>What about &#8230;?</h4>

<p>An open company clearly differs from a <strong>for-profit</strong> company in
that an open company maximizes instead of minimizes transparency, prices to cost
instead of value, and does not compensate its employees.</p>

<p>An open company differs from a <strong>cooperative</strong> in that the
resources of the open company are developed for the benefit of society as a
whole, and not just the mutual benefit of the members of the cooperative. An
open company in which the formal employees shared legal ownership might
technically be an open cooperative.</p>

<p>An open company differs from a <strong>non-profit</strong> organization in
that an open company is not registered as a charity with a government, and does
not itself accept donations. An open company also does not have a paid staff, as
most non-profits do in practice. From the open company&#8217;s point of view,
whether and how its employees receive money and for what, is undefined.</p>

<p>An open company differs from an <strong>open source</strong> project in that
an open company is a formal legal entity, and needn&#8217;t be about
software.</p>

<p>An open company differs from a <strong><a
href="http://www.bcorporation.net/about">B Corporation</a></strong> in that an
open company is not centrally certified (yet?), and does not compensate its
employees.</p>

<p>I would be happy to learn about any existing open companies or similar
entities. To my knowledge this is the first.</p>

<p><strong>UPDATE:</strong> Alexander Stigsen invented the <a
href="https://medium.com/building-gittip/4cbab7ca1a47">open company in 2009 for
E Text Editor</a><strong>.</strong></p><h4>Who is behind Gittip?</h4>

<p><a href="https://www.gittip.com/">Gittip.com</a> is owned and operated by
Gittip, LLC, a Pennsylvania company owned by <a
href="https://www.gittip.com/whit537/">Chad Whitacre</a>. <span>Chad can be
reached via </span><a
href="mailto:chad@zetaweb.com">email</a><span>, </span><a
href="https://twitter.com/#!/whit537">twitter</a><span>, or cell phone at
+1-412-925-4220, or in person at 716 Park Road, Ambridge, PA 15003,
USA.</span></p>
