---
title: Let&#8217;s Apply for a Shuttleworth Fellowship
dateline: October 24, 2012, 11:22 am
layout: page
---

<p><strong>Update:</strong> <a href="https://github.com/gratipay/gratipay.com/i
ssues/297#issuecomment-11290946">Denied</a>.</p>

<p>Gittip is <a href="http://blog.gittip.com/post/26350459746/the-first-open-
company">funded on Gittip</a>. That means the interests of Gittip as a company
are perfectly aligned with the interests of Gittip’s users. It also means I
can’t take any traditional venture capital to fund the early development of
Gittip.</p>

<p><a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mark_Shuttleworth">Mark
Shuttleworth</a> made a fortune during the dot-com boom, and has since
established Ubuntu as the preeminent open-source operating system. He also has
an eponymous <a href="http://www.shuttleworthfoundation.org/">foundation</a>
that gives generous grants to “dynamic leaders who are at the forefront of
social change.” A few points in the Shuttleworth Foundation’s <a
href="http://www.shuttleworthfoundation.org/about-us/our-
philosophy/">philosophy</a> and <a href="http://www.shuttleworthfoundation.org
/our-work/fellowship-model/">model</a> jump out at me. First is the focus on
people more than projects:</p>

<blockquote>

<div>

<p>We support individuals through fellowships (rather than project funding)
because we believe that great people are the true change agents.</p>

<p>We want to give the person with the fresh idea a chance to try it and see if
it brings about the positive change they believe it will.</p>

<div>

<p>We hope that by freeing up 100% of a persons time to follow their dream, it
will become a reality.</p></div></div></blockquote>

<div>

<p>This is, of course, very much in line with Gittip’s <a
href="https://www.gittip.com/about/">ethos</a>, as is the theme of <a
href="http://blog.gittip.com/post/29914417845/more-bazaars-and-better">applying
open source models beyond software</a>:</p></div>

<blockquote>

<div>

<p>The more we expose the thinking, working and practices of our organisation
and our projects, the better.</p>

<p>Working together is faster and smarter than working against each other.</p>

<p>The Foundation does not [&#8230;] fund initiatives with the development or
advocacy of free and open source software as the primary objective. We rather
apply the free and open source philosophy as the underlying principle to our
work.</p></div></blockquote>

<p>Lastly, the foundation’s “skin in the game” expectation is something I
can certainly get behind, since I <a
href="http://blog.gittip.com/post/27072581481/i-believe-in-gittip">left a
comfortable corporate job to pursue Gittip</a>:</p>

<blockquote>

<div>

<p>We make sure the Fellow invests, both personal resources as well as money
into their projects.</p></div></blockquote>

<p>My long-term goal is to find my living on Gittip itself—and if Gittip works
for me, it will be because it works for many of us. I think we can get there in
a year or two. How do we bootstrap Gittip to that point? It seems that a
Shuttleworth Foundation grant would be a big help.</p>

<p>So, in the spirit of openness and community, I would like to invite your
input and support as I apply for a Shuttleworth Foundation grant, starting with
the application itself. Besides a resume and a five-minute video, <a
href="http://www.shuttleworthfoundation.org/funding/fellowship-programme/">the
application</a> is just four questions and two pages long:</p>

<ol>

<li><strong>Describe the world as it is. </strong><em>a description of the
status quo and context in which you will be working</em></li>

<li><strong>What change do you want to make? </strong><em>a description of what
you want to change about the status quo, in the world, your personal vision for
this area</em></li>

<li><strong>What do you want to explore? </strong><em>a description of the
innovations or questions you would like to explore during the fellowship
year</em></li>

<li><strong>What are you going to do to get there? </strong><em>a description
of what you actually plan to do during the year</em></li></ol>

<p>Applications for the spring cohort are due a week from today. I’m
going to <a href="http://sync.in/gittip-shuttleworth">draft mine here</a>, and I
welcome your input. Let’s show the Shuttleworth Foundation that Gittip is a
community worth joining.</p><hr>

<p><em><a href="https://www.gittip.com/whit537/">Chad Whitacre</a> is the
founder of <a href="https://www.gittip.com/">Gittip</a>, a platform for
sustainable crowd-funding.</em></p>
