---
title: Back the Stack: Mezzanine and Cartridge
dateline: August 14, 2012, 10:09 am
layout: page
---

<p><em><a href="https://www.gittip.com/">Gittip</a> is a community of people
building the Commons. This is the first post in a series called &#8220;Back the
Stack,&#8221; where we highlight free software developers whom you can support
through Gittip.</em></p>

<p><em>This post is by <a href="https://www.gittip.com/stephenmcd/">Stephen
McDonald</a>, creator and lead developer of the Mezzanine CMS and Cartridge
shopping cart for Django.</em></p>

<p>&#8212;&#8212;&#8212;&#8212;</p>

<p class="back-the-stack-photo"><img
src="http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_m8r0gdS2GI1rn81gb.jpg"/></p>

<p>Three years ago I started working on <a
href="http://mezzanine.jupo.org/">Mezzanine</a> and <a
href="http://cartridge.jupo.org/">Cartridge</a>, a CMS and ecommerce combination
platform. At that time I was working for a company where we needed something
like Mezzanine and Cartridge to standardize our Django development work, and so
I was able to spend a significant amount of time working on these projects to
support the work my company was doing. </p>

<p>Fast forward to now, and Mezzanine and Cartridge have grown much more popular
than I would have ever anticipated, with a wonderful community of developers
forming around both projects together. Development has continued every week in
some form or another since the projects were first started, but these days with
the amount of growth they&#8217;ve received and change of direction around my
day job, it&#8217;s often a struggle to find the time, both to support the
always-growing community of users, and to continue the development of features
to make Mezzanine and Cartridge even better.</p>

<p>I&#8217;ve never had any expectation around returns on the development of
Mezzanine and Cartridge, other than the potential for Feeling Good about
creating something amazing that helps other developers out, by making their and
their users lives easier - and as I mentioned, this has happened at a level much
greater than I would have ever imagined. But as life has changed, and I&#8217;ve
found myself with less time available for the growing amount of work needed to
continue these projects, I&#8217;ve often dreamt of what it would be like to be
able to work on them full time. I think the potential would be amazing, but
I&#8217;ve never worked out how that could possibly be funded. Like a lot of
people, I have bills to pay and a wife and child to support, so I&#8217;ve never
had the opportunity to just drop everything and explore how this might
work. <span>To make a living from continuing the development of the free
software I&#8217;ve built is my dream, though.</span></p>

<p>&#8212;&#8212;&#8212;&#8212;</p>

<p><em><a href="https://www.gittip.com/stephenmcd/">Click here to support
Stephen McDonald on Gittip.</a></em></p>
