---
title: Harassment and Openness
dateline: April 24, 2014, 5:29 pm
layout: page
---

<p>One of Gittip&#8217;s <a href="http://building.gittip.com/big-
picture/brand/">core values</a> is a love of self-critique, so as we watch the
story unfold of Julie Ann Horvath&#8217;s <a
href="http://techcrunch.com/2014/03/15/julie-ann-horvath-describes-sexism-and-
intimidation-behind-her-github-exit/">harassment</a> while at GitHub, we thought
it an appropriate response to <a
href="https://botbot.me/freenode/gittip/msg/13785409/">ask ourselves</a>,
&#8220;In what ways is Gittip at risk of enabling harassment?&#8221;</p>

<p>We are an <a href="http://blog.gittip.com/post/26350459746/the-first-open-
company">open company</a>, which for us means that we share as much as possible,
charge as little as possible, and fund ourselves openly on Gittip itself. In
fact, our purpose in helping drive the <a
href="http://www.opencompany.org/">open company movement</a> is precisely to
address the root causes of social ills such as harassment. GitHub&#8217;s fall
from grace is so sad because it&#8217;s so predictable: it&#8217;s simply too
easy for harassment to fester behind closed doors. Open the doors! Fresh air!
Fresh air! Many eyes make bugs shallow, both in code and in culture.</p>

<p>Speaking personally as someone who ticks all the standard boxes of privilege
(straight white male, etc.), knowing that my conversations and interactions are
public helps me pay more attention to what I&#8217;m saying and doing. Why do I
want to pay attention to my words and behavior? Not, I hope, out of fear of
reprisal (whether in court or on social media). I want to avoid bullying and
harassing others out of love. I want my avoidance of harassment to be a
byproduct of my pursuit of positive relationships with everyone I interact
with.</p>

<p>But open companies, like open source, are not magic pixie dust. One lesson
we&#8217;re taking away from GitHub is that a flat organizational structure has
challenges. There may be no clear path or authority figure to go to for conflict
resolution. Combined with &#8220;hidden structure&#8221; (<a
href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zxRWW4CYLSI#t=13m38s">re: Valve</a>), the
lack of conflict resolution pathways especially hurts those most in need, those
without power. Of course, traditional HR departments have their own issues.
Ideally they are an objective third party to resolve conflict, but to the cynic
they exist to limit the company&#8217;s exposure to lawsuits. GitHub&#8217;s
most recent statement <a
href="http://aworkinglibrary.com/writing/legalese/">suggests this
approach</a>.</p>

<p>GitHub is a fantastic and inspiring product, and we heavily depend on it in
building Gittip. We pay GitHub $25 a month, mostly because we believe in paying
for the products and services we use (we do use private repos as part of our
security issue workflow). We haven&#8217;t yet used a purchasing decision as
activism, and it&#8217;s not obvious to us that this is the time to start. For
now, we&#8217;re keeping our repos at GitHub.</p>

<p>As this story unfolds, we&#8217;ll keep asking ourselves whether we need to
vote with our dollars, and as we grow as a company we&#8217;ll <a
href="https://botbot.me/freenode/gittip/msg/13829048/">keep an eye out</a> for
policies Gittip needs in order to resolve conflict early, and to properly handle
harassment when it comes to that.</p>

<p>&#8212;&#8212;</p>

<p><em>Chad Whitacre is the founder of Gittip.</em></p>
