---
title: Gittip Has Acquired Shields
dateline: August 26, 2013, 10:30 am
layout: page
---

<p><a href="https://www.gittip.com/">Gittip</a> has acquired <a
href="https://github.com/gittip/shields.io">the Shields project</a>.</p>

<p>Gittip is a platform for giving money every week to awesome people and teams.
We launched in June, 2012, and we currently have 1,600 weekly active users
moving $5,300 per week.</p>

<p>Shields is a great example of an awesome team that should be able to use
Gittip for its funding. Having Shields in-house enables Gittip to discover the
pain points of, <span>and drive best practices for,</span><span> funding a
team on Gittip. (Gittip itself is also funded on Gittip, but that&#8217;s a
special case.)</span></p>

<p>What is Shields? Shields is an effort to standardize the metadata images that
have become common on open-source READMEs over the past couple years. Here is an
example from the <a href="https://github.com/rails/rails#code-status">Ruby on
Rails README</a>:</p>

<blockquote>

<p><img alt="image" src="http://media.tumblr.com/24c2b64f79dd934f9a72842f852ca1c
5/tumblr_inline_ms1v1eDN5a1qz4rgp.png"/></p></blockquote>

<p><a href="https://www.gittip.com/olivierlacan/">Olivier Lacan</a><span>
started the Shields project in January of 2013, when he grew frustrated with the
inconsistency across the status image implementations of various
services. </span><span>Olivier saw that a professional and consistent design
across all of these services would be in the best interest of open-source
developers everywhere, so he opened Photoshop and began building PNG images.
Joined by </span><a href="https://www.gittip.com/ackerdev/">Nicholas
Acker</a><span> and </span><a href="https://github.com/gittip/shields.io/graphs/
contributors">others</a><span>, PNGs from the Shields project have since been
adopted by </span><a href="http://about.travis-ci.org/docs/user/status-
images/">Travis CI</a><span>, </span><a
href="https://codeclimate.com/changelog/510d4fde56b102523a0004bf">Code
Climate</a><span>, </span><a href="http://blog.tech-
angels.com/post/43141047457/gemnasium-v3-aka-gemnasium">Gemnasium</a><span>,
</span><a
href="https://twitter.com/Gemfury/status/300709469137010688">Gemfury</a><span>,
and </span><a href="https://coveralls.io/repos/hannesg/uri_template/badge.png?br
anch=master">Coveralls</a><span>.</span></p>

<p>Gittip founder Chad Whitacre met Olivier during Heroku&#8217;s <a
href="https://waza.heroku.com/">Waza</a> conference in February, 2013, and
eventually got involved with the Shields project&#8217;s <a
href="https://github.com/gittip/shields.io/issues/15">effort</a> to build
Shields.io, a high-performance, on-demand web service for dynamic metadata
images. Shields has clearly demonstrated demand with its static PNGs. Shields.io
will make it easy to offer Shields to many more project metadata providers, and
will remove the burden of hosting status images from participating
providers.</p>

<p>Olivier will continue to manage the Shields.io project within Gittip. The <a
href="https://github.com/gittip/shields.io">repo</a> has been moved from
Olivier&#8217;s GitHub account to the Gittip organization, and has been renamed
from &#8220;shields&#8221; to &#8220;shields.io&#8221; to indicate the emphasis
on the web service going forward. We&#8217;ve set up a <a
href="https://twitter.com/Shields_io">Shields_io</a> Twitter account and a <a
href="https://www.gittip.com/Shields/">Shields</a> team on Gittip.</p>

<p>True to our shared love of openness, the agreement for Gittip to acquire
Shields was reached over the course of two live-broadcast video conferences (<a
href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DW_kDoeBEC0">one</a>, <a
href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CZ0lgVWGSEs">two</a>), and was submitted
for final approval to our respective communities through our issue trackers (<a
href="https://github.com/gittip/shields.io/issues/43">one</a>, <a
href="https://github.com/gittip/www.gittip.com/issues/1307">two</a>).
Here&#8217;s a screenshot of Chad and Olivier <a
href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CZ0lgVWGSEs#t=28m01s">finalizing the
deal</a>:</p>

<p><img alt="image" src="http://media.tumblr.com/cd1ed13bf58d335f4a28cbed0b3a6cc
5/tumblr_inline_ms55tvIsqO1qz4rgp.png"/></p>

<p><span>As Olivier </span><a href="https://github.com/gittip/www.gittip.com/iss
ues/1307#issuecomment-23113774">says</a><span>, &#8220;I believe making Shields
a part of Gittip will bring about even more amazing contributions to this
project.&#8221; </span><span>We&#8217;re delighted to welcome Shields to
Gittip, and we look forward to launching Shields.io and providing even more
useful project metadata to the open-source community!</span></p><hr>

<p><em>Visit <a href="https://github.com/gittip/shields.io">the repo</a> to
help build Shields.io.</em></p>

<p><em>Use Gittip to help <a href="https://www.gittip.com/Shields.io/">fund the
team</a> behind Shields.io.</em></p>
