---
title: Introducing Communities
dateline: May 13, 2013, 3:32 pm
layout: page
---

<p><span>One of the things we&#8217;ve noticed over the past year since Gittip
launched is that Gittip grows community by community. It&#8217;s not enough for
an isolated individual to join the site, either as a giver or a receiver.
They&#8217;ll have a <a href="http://whit537.org/2013/01/disappointed-with-
gittip.html">disappointing experience</a>. Gittip is a network and it depends on
the network effect to be valuable: the more of your friends and colleagues that
are on there, the more fun and useful it is.</span></p>

<p>Through historical accident, Gittip&#8217;s growth in its first year has been
in the open source software community in general, and in the Python programming
language community in particular. There are other communities represented on the
site, but because the homepage to date has shown only the top ten givers and
receivers on the site as a whole, and because Python was the first community to
start using Gittip, it&#8217;s been hard for other communities to see themselves
on Gittip.</p>

<p>That changes today with the launch of a new &#8220;Communities&#8221; feature
on Gittip. Now, self-organizing communities of 150 members or more each get
their own homepage on Gittip. Why 150? Because it&#8217;s the<a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dunbar's_number"> Dunbar number</a>, the
rough upper limit of the people in a social group that we can each keep track of
in our own head. The communities feature is designed to split the Gittip
homepage up into multiple homepages, one for each large community or ecosystem.
In the coming months we&#8217;ll be introducing additional features on Gittip to
better model projects and other smaller groups.</p>

<p>We actually soft-launched this communities feature two weeks ago, and today
the <a href="https://www.gittip.com/for/korea/">Korea community</a> became the
first to cross the 150 mark, thanks to a <a
href="https://twitter.com/hongminhee/status/333868284195770368">call to
action</a> from Hong Minhee.</p>

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet">

<p>한국에 계시는 오픈 소스에 기여하는 개발자 분들, Gittip
한국 커뮤니티에 참여해주세요.<a href="https://t.co/6SxkLNyZ0a"
title="https://www.gittip.com/for/korea/">gittip.com/for/korea/</a></p>

<div>— Hong Minhee (@hongminhee)</div>

<div><a href="https://twitter.com/hongminhee/status/333868284195770368">May 13,
2013</a></div></blockquote><script charset="utf-8" src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js"
type="text/javascript"></script>

<p>Unfortunately, international credit cards are
a rarity in Korea, so the Korea community&#8217;s actual giving and receiving
won&#8217;t be very robust until we&#8217;re able to improve Gittip&#8217;s
non-U.S. payments story. That said, it was a wonderful surprise today to
discover Korea appear out of nowhere on the list of communities on Gittip, and
quickly reach the 150 mark. We&#8217;ll get payments sorted out sooner or later,
and when we do they&#8217;ll still have been the first.</p>

<p>What will be the next community to tip into viability on Gittip? That&#8217;s
up to you! What communities are you a part of? Go <a
href="https://www.gittip.com/for/">find or add them on Gittip</a>!</p>

<p><strong>Update:</strong> <a
href="https://www.gittip.com/for/python/">Python</a> and <a
href="https://www.gittip.com/for/javascript/">JavaScript</a> have become the
second and third communities on Gittip!</p>
