---
title: Is Personal Funding Viable?
dateline: July 4, 2012, 2:53 pm
layout: page
---

<p>The goal for <a href="https://www.gittip.com/">Gittip</a> is for people to
find a living on it. If you build free culture or otherwise devote your energy
to making the world better, I want you to be able to pay your mortgage and your
phone bill and put gas in your car entirely from money you receive on Gittip.
That&#8217;s my goal. Of course there will be plenty of people with a day job
that receive some supplemental income on Gittip, a thank you for the free work
they&#8217;re able to do on the side, a little extra money for beer or coffee.
But I want finding a living entirely on Gittip to be a normal thing to do. I say
&#8220;finding&#8221; a living instead of &#8220;earning&#8221; or
&#8220;making&#8221; a living to emphasize that Gittip is about free, no-
strings-attached gifts. Gittip isn&#8217;t a job. You don&#8217;t have a manager
telling you how to spend your time in exchange for the money you receive through
Gittip. We trust you.</p>

<p>Is full personal funding viable with Gittip? We started out with the ability
to gift tip someone a few cents a week. The possible amounts were 8¢, 16¢,
32¢, 64¢, and $1.28. But when we <a
href="https://github.com/gratipay/gratipay.com/issues/95">looked at the
numbers</a>, it seemed like this wasn&#8217;t going to add up. A fairly popular
open source programmer will have maybe 5,000 followers on Twitter. If all of
those followers tipped 64¢, that would add up to $3,200 per week, or $166,400
per year. That&#8217;s in <a href="http://www.payscale.com/top-tech-employers-
compared-2012/pay">the ballpark</a> of what a mid-career engineer can expect at
a top tech company, which is approximately what we&#8217;re aiming for. If a top
open-source programmer can only find $30,000 a year through Gittip, then Gittip
isn&#8217;t working properly.</p>

<p>The problem is that not all 5,000 followers can be expected to tip. Instead
we should expect a few people to tip a lot, and a long tail of people to tip a
little. The same is true from the other side of the equation: there are a few
people I want to truly support, and then a lot more folks that I&#8217;d be
happy giving a &#8220;token amount&#8221; to each week.</p>

<p>Today on Gittip I rolled out new amounts that will hopefully make personal
funding through Gittip more viable. The new amounts are 25¢, $3, $6, $12, and
$24. That&#8217;s an order of magnitude jump, and it&#8217;s designed to make
full personal funding viable on Gittip. The numbers we&#8217;re shooting for
here are something like 3,000 people tipping 25¢ a week, and 500 people
tipping an average of $5 a week, which would add up to $3,250 per week, or
$169,000 per year.</p>

<p>Notice the gap between 25¢ and $3. The idea is to streamline the decision to
tip someone a token amount. Once you&#8217;ve identified someone as part of your
long tail, then the difference between 16¢ and 32¢ isn&#8217;t that useful.
With just one token option we make it easy. But for those you want to really
invest in, it&#8217;s worth a few extra moments to make a decision between
three, six, 12, and 24 dollars per week. The top amount is about $100 a month,
which is about as significant a donation as we can make without threatening the
anonymous, no-strings-attached nature of the gift. No single giver should have
an overly large impact on a recipient.</p>

<p>Tips for the old amounts are grandfathered in. However, once you change away
from that tip amount you won&#8217;t be able to change back. You&#8217;ll need
to go with one of the new amounts.</p>

<p>I&#8217;m really excited to find out who the first person will be to announce
that they&#8217;re fully personally funded on Gittip. <a
href="https://www.gittip.com/alex/">Alex Gaynor</a>? <a
href="https://www.gittip.com/jezdez/">Jannis Leidel</a>? <a
href="https://www.gittip.com/jtauber/">James Tauber</a>? Each has expressed
interest in the idea, and I&#8217;m sure there are other people making the world
better that would love nothing more than to be freed up to pursue their vision
even further.</p>

<p>Let&#8217;s <a href="https://www.gittip.com/">make it happen</a>!</p>
