---
title: The Community is My Cofounder
dateline: October 18, 2013, 3:56 pm
layout: page
---

<p>I&#8217;m applying to Y Combinator with Gittip. One of the main pieces of
feedback I&#8217;ve gotten on my <a
href="https://gist.github.com/whit537/6723103">application</a> is that I should
find another founder. As Warren Konkel of Bountysource advised:</p>

<blockquote>

<p>Don&#8217;t think of it as &#8220;I need a cofounder to get to the YC
interview,&#8221; and instead, &#8220;Gittip will be a much stronger company if
i have a cofounder, and YC invests in strong companies.&#8221;</p></blockquote>

<p>I&#8217;m empathetic to this. I&#8217;ve had two past experiences with
business partners. The first worked out great: we had a good run, and parted
amicably. The second time I ruined an old friendship, so I understand both the
benefits and the risks of having a cofounder.</p>

<p>As the YC application deadline approaches, I&#8217;ve been <a
href="https://github.com/gittip/www.gittip.com/issues/1603">exploring</a> the
possibility of adding a cofounder to my application. For better or for worse, no
slam-dunk choice has emerged from amongst the Gittip community. Therefore,
I&#8217;ve decided to move forward with the YC application on the basis that the
community as a whole is my cofounder. For most companies, this would be
bullshit. For Gittip, I propose that it&#8217;s actually true.</p>

<p>Here are some of the ways that the Gittip community fulfills the cofounder
role:</p>

<ol>

<li><strong>The community boosts my morale.</strong> Of course there&#8217;s
the collaboration in IRC and GitHub, and the financial generosity on Gittip
itself. But I also get to witness inspiring acts such as one contributor <a
href="https://botbot.me/freenode/gittip/msg/6925801/">mailing a laptop</a> to
another contributor.</li>

<li><strong>The community corrects my bad decisions.</strong> The most vehement
example of this was the <a
href="https://botbot.me/freenode/gittip/msg/6118740/">pushback</a> I got on a
dumb idea I called &#8220;issue tracker zero&#8221; (don&#8217;t ask!).</li>

<li><strong>The community feels a real sense of ownership.</strong> Our issue
tracker is full of epic tickets with impassioned (yet respectful) debates,
involving scores of participants, e.g.: <a class="issue-link"
href="https://github.com/gittip/www.gittip.com/issues/5" title="allow for one-
off tips">#5</a> <a class="issue-link"
href="https://github.com/gittip/www.gittip.com/issues/14" title="pay in with
bitcoin">#14</a> <a class="issue-link"
href="https://github.com/gittip/www.gittip.com/issues/28" title="switch to opt-
in">#28</a> <a class="issue-link"
href="https://github.com/gittip/www.gittip.com/issues/126" title="find a
solution for withdrawals outside the US">#126</a> <a class="issue-link"
href="https://github.com/gittip/www.gittip.com/issues/138" title="change the
name from gittip to something else">#138</a>. I mean, heck, the <a
href="https://github.com/gittip/www.gittip.com/issues/1404">YC application
ticket</a> itself has two dozen participants.</li>

<li><strong>The community gets work done.</strong> We haven&#8217;t yet found
someone able to work full-time on Gittip with me, but between everyone else on
the team, we have roughly one full-time equivalent. That&#8217;s acceptable
while we&#8217;re bootstrapping.</li>

<li><strong>If I were to disappear, new leadership would emerge from the
community.</strong> Pretty much the only piece of information the community
doesn&#8217;t have that it would need is the password for DNS. Even there,
that&#8217;s not an insurmountable problem. Gittip wouldn&#8217;t be the same
without me, but it wouldn&#8217;t simply die.</li></ol>

<p>Closed companies need cofounders because they&#8217;re closed. Due to
variability pooling, two or three people make better decisions and last longer
than one person acting alone.</p>

<p>But Gittip is an <a href="http://blog.gittip.com/post/26350459746/the-first-
open-company">open company</a>, and I&#8217;m emphatically <em>not</em> acting
alone. The same is true of Gittip&#8217;s open source project cousins: Who
cofounded Linux? Or Python? Or Perl? Or PHP? It&#8217;s certainly possible for
open entities to have multiple cofounders (FreeBSD, Apache, Subversion,
Wikipedia). But it&#8217;s also genuinely possible for the community to be the
cofounder, and—whether YC is ready to hear this or not—that is the case with
Gittip.</p>
