---
title: With Payouts, Gittip is Minimally Viable
dateline: August 24, 2012, 3:27 pm
layout: page
---

<p><a href="https://www.gittip.com/">Gittip</a> is a system for funding people
who build free culture. The core is small weekly gifts. The idea is that if
1,000 people give $1 a week to a great programmer, musician, scientist, teacher,
etc., then that frees them up to pursue their vision even further for making the
world better.</p>

<p>We&#8217;ve been pulling money into the system for <a
href="https://www.gittip.com/about/charts.html">twelve weeks</a>, but until
today there was no good way to get money <em>out</em> of the system. There was a
<em>bad</em> way, which was me giving you cash from my wallet. I actually did
that twice for one Gittip participant, when I ran into him at conferences, for a
total of $2.50 withdrawn (followed by manual SQL updates). Then I did make a
PayPal donation on <a
href="https://twitter.com/whit537/status/223077883554430977">behalf</a> of
another participant, for a grand total of $26.80 paid out. But meanwhile
we&#8217;re now moving over $1,000 per week, and by this morning we had
$5,604.76 escrowed in the system.</p>

<p>I&#8217;m pleased to announce that you can now <strong><a
href="https://www.gittip.com/bank-account.html">connect a bank
account</a></strong> to your Gittip profile. If you wire up a bank account, then
Gittip will automatically deposit your money in it each week. If you are set up
to give to others, then Gittip will reserve that amount in your Gittip account
for the following week, to avoid processing fees. There is a $10 minimum
withdrawal, and a 30¢ flat fee on withdrawals. Withdrawals show up on your
history page along with gifts to and fro, and any credit card charges.</p>

<p>Gittip works <a href="http://blog.gittip.com/post/28351995405/open-
partnerships">closely</a> with <a
href="https://www.balancedpayments.com/">Balanced Payments</a> as our payment
processor. They are responsible for verifying your identity, securely storing
your account details, and processing your payments with the credit card and ACH
networks. Balanced is designed specifically for marketplaces such as Gittip, and
greatly streamlines the process of verifying the identity of
&#8220;merchants&#8221; (as the banks would have it) who receive money through
the site.</p>

<p>Balanced is US-only for payouts (Balanced and Gittip both support
paying <em>in</em> with non-US credit cards). You can voice your interest in
support for non-US identity verification and bank accounts on <a
href="https://github.com/balanced/balanced-api/issues/23">this Balanced
ticket</a> and/or <a
href="https://github.com/gratipay/gratipay.com/issues/126">this Gittip
ticket</a>. In the meantime, I&#8217;m continuing to handle non-US payouts
manually. Please contact me, Chad Whitacre, at <a
href="mailto:chad@zetaweb.com">chad@zetaweb.com</a>, <a
href="https://twitter.com/whit537">@whit537</a>, or +1-412-925-4220 to arrange
for a PayPal payment or check (you&#8217;ll be responsible for postage/fees at
cost).</p>

<p>Nine out of ten US citizens can verify their identity by providing their
name, address, phone number, and date of birth. One in ten will need to also
provide their Social Security Number to verify their identity.</p>

<p>Two bank accounts were connected for today&#8217;s payday, and $1,147.50 was
withdrawn. Withdrawals take one business day to clear the ACH network, so
today&#8217;s withdrawals are expected to clear on Monday. We are <a
href="https://github.com/gratipay/gratipay.com/issues/259">considering</a>
running Gittip payday on Thursdays instead of Fridays so that funds are
available in recipient bank accounts on Friday (as is customary for payroll in
the US, at least).</p>

<p>With this feature, Gittip is now minimally viable. Thanks to Balanced and
especially to Balanced employee <a
href="https://www.gittip.com/mjallday/">Marshall Jones</a> for contributing the
bulk of the payouts integration.</p>

<p>$5,449.41 is currently escrowed in Gittip. If some of that is yours, then go
<a href="https://www.gittip.com/bank-account.html">wire up a bank account</a>
before Gittip 13 to receive your money!</p>
