---
title: Farewell, Homepage Leaderboards
dateline: July 22, 2014, 10:38 am
layout: page
---

<p>When I launched Gittip over two years ago, one of my goals for the homepage
was to quickly answer the question, &#8220;Does Gittip actually work? Is anyone
making any money here?&#8221; I decided to add a leaderboard showing the top
receivers on the site so anyone could see for themselves.</p>

<p>Within weeks it became apparent that the leaderboards were going to be <a
href="https://github.com/gittip/www.gittip.com/issues/64">contentious</a>, and
indeed they have been over the years. Gittip is about collaboration, but the
leaderboards on the homepage lent the site an air of competition.</p>

<p>Yesterday, we launched a new homepage. It&#8217;s a much simpler introduction
to Gittip, with a straightforward call to action: Sign in to accept payments!
For those who aren&#8217;t ready to sign in, we provide a link to our About
pages as a secondary call to action, and other potentially interesting pointers
in the fine print. Once you&#8217;re signed in, the homepage shows a simple
&#8220;Welcome back!&#8221; and a link to your profile. In the future
we&#8217;ll be making the homepage <a
href="https://github.com/gittip/www.gittip.com/issues/2584">more dynamic</a> for
signed-in users.</p>

<p>The community pages still have leaderboards for now, but we&#8217;re planning
to remove them from there as well. We have conversations going about what <a hre
f="https://github.com/gittip/www.gittip.com/issues/634#issuecomment-13677898">be
haviors</a> we want to encourage on Gittip, and how to use the community pages
<a href="https://github.com/gittip/www.gittip.com/issues/967">to do that</a>.
We&#8217;re also talking about how to provide value for companies that have been
using their place on the Gittip homepage as a form of <a
href="https://github.com/gittip/www.gittip.com/issues/1513">advertising</a>.</p>

<p>Does Gittip actually work? <a href="https://medium.com/building-gittip
/gittip-year-two-a220308d4ec9">Yes</a>. With this new homepage we&#8217;re
hoping to provide a cleaner impression for people finding us for the first
time<span>â€”</span>without the air of competition. <a
href="https://www.gittip.com/">Go check it out</a>!</p>
