---
title: With First Retreat, Gittip Team Becomes a Reality
dateline: January 25, 2014, 12:10 am
layout: page
---

<p>On January 4, 2013, we announced that <a
href="http://blog.gittip.com/post/39687487576/gittip-is-hiring">Gittip is
hiring</a>. Exactly one year later, 20 participants in our <a
href="http://blog.gittip.com/post/26350459746/the-first-open-company">open
company</a> gathered together in person for the first ever Gittip company
retreat. One participant travelled from the Czech Republic, and another from
Trinidad. The rest were from Canada and throughout the United States. Only
seven were from the Pittsburgh area.</p>

<p><img alt="image"
src="http://media.tumblr.com/efc98feb07ff59212642c1d191d5bce1/tumblr_inline_mzxx1lA6901rn81gb.jpg"/></p>

<p><em><strong>Row 1</strong> </em>(left to right)<em><strong>:</strong>
Christopher Clarke, P.J. Jimenez, Joe Esposito, Nik Markwell. <strong>Row
2:</strong> Zbyněk Winkler, Christy Leonardo, Carl Levinson, Bruce Adams, Luke
Strickland. <strong>Row 3:</strong> Chad Whitacre, Jocelyn Graf, Lyndy Palmer,
Sean Linsley. <strong>Row 4:</strong> Heidi Gardner, Oscar Sanchez, John
Rubino.  <strong>Not pictured:</strong> Pat Connolly, Aaron Lloyd, Angel
Vagias, Kim Zick.</em></p>

<p>Meeting around a dining room table in Ambridge, Pennsylvania, the first item
on our agenda was to review Gittip&#8217;s <a
href="https://www.gittip.com/for/contributors/mission-statement.html">Mission
and Vision Statements</a>, and our Product Overview. Our Mission and Vision are
broad statements of our reason for existing, and speak to a goal much larger
than day-to-day operations:</p>

<blockquote>

<p>Gittip&#8217;s mission is to redeem the economy.</p>

<p>We envision a future in which the economy is characterized by trust,
collaboration, cooperation, sharing, openness, transparency, care for one
another, inclusion, inspiration, purpose, generosity, patience, empathy,
optimism, and love.</p></blockquote>

<p>Our Product Overview became the document we spent the most time refining. It
is incorporated into the <a
href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1TQATN7-IxphyguJzEqxgo-99hJYavdOObNYNlVoX0us/edit?usp=sharing">2014
redesign project plan</a> that we&#8217;re now developing in the wake of the
retreat.</p>

<p>We agreed to order these aspects of the website to reflect their level of
importance: Giving, Profiles, Teams, and Communities. This led to a decision to
prioritize our work together where all of our tasks are evaluated based on
their relationship to Giving and the ease with which a participant is able to
give, especially for the first time. This distillation and focus generated
assent and enthusiasm among the team members present and helped us through more
arduous tasks, like agreeing on a system for prioritizing our GitHub
issues.</p>

<p>Saturday&#8217;s conversations gave way to hacking on Saturday night and
throughout Sunday and into the following week. One team went through all 450+
issues in our issue tracker, prioritizing all of them according to the scheme
we came up with together. Another team started thinking through the onboarding
flow for new givers. A third team worked on the onboarding flow for new
developers via Vagrant.</p>

<p>The most important work of the retreat, however, was in cementing
relationships amongst the team. Here we succeeded mightily. Participants were
reluctant to leave: by Wednesday we still had five folks hanging out and
hacking!</p>

<p>Saturday&#8217;s sessions were video-taped and posted to YouTube. These
videos don&#8217;t begin to capture the full collegial spirit of the retreat,
yet we post them here in the interest of openness:</p>

<p><iframe frameborder="0" height="315"
src="//www.youtube.com/embed/Dmwo28A5vd8" width="420"></iframe></p>

<p><iframe frameborder="0" height="315"
src="//www.youtube.com/embed/ILScnYBkkO4" width="420"></iframe></p>

<p><iframe frameborder="0" height="315"
src="//www.youtube.com/embed/_Lz6S7OmbGI" width="420"></iframe></p>

<p><iframe frameborder="0" height="315" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/7lz-oKv9bhI" width="420"></iframe></p>

<p>Next year&#8217;s retreat is scheduled for January 2-5, 2015.</p>

<p><strong>Update:</strong> Here is <a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AiDJ5uiG6Hp3dFVudEJMeHBGYnk2SGtVbzladGNGOHc&amp;usp=sharing">a report
on the finances</a> for the retreat:</p>

<p><iframe frameborder="0" height="300" src="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/pub?key=0AiDJ5uiG6Hp3dFVudEJMeHBGYnk2SGtVbzladGNGOHc&amp;single=true&amp;gid=0&amp;output=html&amp;widget=true" width="100%"></iframe></p>
